# **Refrapt**
 
## **Why this project ***does not*** use Wget --continue or --no-if-modified-since for dealing with partial downloads**
Partial downloads are a problem and there is not a simple way with `Wget` to resume a download without the possibility of either corrupting the file, or causing excess downloads to occur. 

Refrapt uses the `--timestamping` (`-N`) option with `Wget`, which checks with the server the modified time of the file, and compares it with the local copy. If the timestamps match, regardless of whether the download completed, `Wget` will ignore the file with a 304 Not Modified. Under normal circumstances, this prevents redownloading files which you already have, saving on time and bandwidth. In the event a download was interrupted, a subsequent attempt will not succeed, as `Wget` will ignore the file.

Now, you could use `Wget --continue`, but it has problems. The `--continue` option compares the length of the local copy with the length of the requested file (if that option is supported by the server), and if they differ, `Wget` will request the remainder of the file, calculated by "(length(remote) - length(local))" in bytes. Now, if you were only downloading a log file, or an mp3, the file would likely only get longer, so appending the remaining bytes to the local copy would succeed. However, when dealing with an executable, if the contents have shifted at all, appending the remaining bytes will mean that while the sizes would match, the file is now corrupt. This will leave a corrupt version of the file in your local mirror, which will not be updated until a new update is released to the server.

Further, you could use the `--no-if-modified-since` option, which causes `Wget` to request the size and timestamp of the file which does circumvent the corruption possibilites of `--continue`. However not all servers are obligated, or able to return the size of the content being downloaded, which would mean that if unsupported, `Wget` will download the entire file each time Refrapt is run, as the sizes will not match, even though the timestamps do. This could cause unnecessary redownloads of perfectly good files.

To attain the best of both worlds, Refrapt uses lock files. Just before the call to `Wget` is made, a Download-lock.* file is created, with the Uri of the resource attempting to be downloaded. Once the `Wget` download is complete, the lock file is removed. In the event that Refrapt is interrupted, next time Refrapt is run, it will scan the VarPath for any Download-lock.* files. If any are found, this means the file on disk is only partial downloaded. Refrapt will then delete the local copy, to ensure that `Wget` will always get the file again.